# Change Log 12/15/2019

Before Starting Up the Server

> ---
>
> - Delete your node_modules folder!
> - Verify your `package.json` looks like this:
>
> ```json
>  "scripts": {
>    "dev": "nodemon --exec babel-node ./src",
>    "heroku-postbuild": "yarn install",
>    "clean": "rm -rf build && mkdir build",
>    "build-babel": "babel -d ./build ./src -s ",
>    "build": "yarn clean && yarn build-babel",
>    "start": "yarn build && node ./build/index.js"
>  },
>  "repository": {
>    "type": "git",
>    "url": "git+https://github.com/wynwlsn86/MontyMarketplace.git"
>  },
>  "dependencies": {
>    "bcrypt": "^3.0.6",
>    "body-parser": "^1.19.0",
>    "cors": "^2.8.5",
>    "dotenv": "^8.0.0",
>    "express": "^4.17.0",
>    "helmet": "^3.21.2",
>    "jsonwebtoken": "^8.5.1",
>    "moment": "^2.24.0",
>    "mongoose": "^5.6.9",
>    "mongoose-money": "^0.2.0",
>    "morgan": "^1.9.1",
>    "nodemailer": "^6.2.1"
>  },
>  "author": "",
>  "license": "ISC",
>  "bugs": {
>    "url": "https://github.com/wynwlsn86/MontyMarketplace/issues"
>  },
>  "homepage": "https://github.com/wynwlsn86/MontyMarketplace#readme",
>  "devDependencies": {
>    "@babel/cli": "^7.7.0",
>    "@babel/core": "^7.7.2",
>    "@babel/node": "^7.7.0",
>    "@babel/plugin-proposal-class-properties": "^7.7.4",
>    "@babel/preset-env": "^7.7.1",
>    "nodemon": "^2.0.0"
>  }
> ```
>
> - Run `npm install`
> - The Server should be ready to start, use `npm run dev` to start it.
>
> ---

## Change 1 (Breaking Change)

Added Babel :

> - We can use ES6 syntax now, because `require()` gets messy!
> - You Should have a file called `.babelrc` that holds config details for babel , if you don't open an issue ticket so I can take a look :)
> - Theres some extra config we have to do for heroku deployment because of babel packages but it's straight forward.
> - We can also use ES6 in classes with `babel`, but that means extra packages which I prefer not to add, we can discuss further

## Change 2 (Breaking)

All models were moved to a model folder inside of `/database`

Changes made to the `Apparel` model:

> - It made no sense to keep a seperate document for the details, it's now built directly into the model, size and colors have their own quantities which allows us to do a simple calculation for total in stock. Also updating quantities should be much easier now!

Changes to `User` model:

> - Since ideally it should only be one person having control of inventory, ie: the shareholder, name and username were removed from the schema, password was changed to password_digest since we aren't actually storing the password in the database, only the hashed variant. We still use the password key for sending credentials to the back end though.

Example:

```js
{
  email: "test@mail.com",
  password: "1234"
}
```

## Change 3 (Breaking)

We now have a production and development database!!
The data has been migrated to development already, no need to do anything there.

The database connection config is in the `/src/config/` folder.

But this means that your old connection strings won't work for atlas. You'll have to change them in your `.env` like so:

Developement:

```sh
ATLAS_URI=mongodb+srv://<username>:<password>@ourdatabase/development?retryWrites=true&w=majority
```

Production:

```sh
DATABASE_URI=mongodb+srv://<username>:<password>@ourdatabase/production?retryWrites=true&w=majority
```

You can keep the same username, password and database pointer before the `/` and change anything after to either production or development

Salt Rounds And App Secret Must be in `.env`!

Salt Rounds Ex:

> ---
>
> Must be a number, anything above 9 should be fine
>
> ```sh
> SALT_ROUNDS=SomeNumber
> ```
>
> ---

App Secret Ex:

> ---
>
> Make sure it's secure, this is what encrypts the clients jwt!
> You can use [PasswordGenerator](https://passwordsgenerator.net/) to generate a secure one, make sure to uncheck `include symbols`, heroku will not read this.
>
> ```sh
> APP_SECRET=SHHHHHHHHHHHHH
> ```
>
> ---

## Change 4

Added Helmet package

> This mitigates `xss` attacks and keeps our `jwts` secure.
> No Extra config needed, it's used as middleware inside of the `index.js` in `/src`

## Change 5

Refactored `routes` and created `controllers` to organize everything :)

> This should be self explanatory, but if you have questions about what the controllers are doing lmk!
> Routes are middleware too! The endpoint for the api is now `/api` and then forwarded to each router inside of the `index.js` in `/routes`. All new enpoints are structured as follows:
>
> - > `/api/apparel`

## Change 6

Auth methods have been split up to make it easier to use!

All methods are located inside `/src/auth/index.js`

The `authenticate` method works as middleware for our routes, we can create protected routes this way by inserting it in our routes before our controller methods, this way anything that should be protected verifys that the jwt is valid before invoking the method.

### Final Notes

If theres anything that doesn't work or that you don't understand file an issue ticket and let me know. We can walk through it.

### Suggestions

I may implement `CI` and `jest` for testing, that way if we ever need to jump back into the backend at a later date everything will be set up and ready to go.

Andre
